So first what I'm going to do is quickly create a free EC2 instance,
free tier, configure the details.
I'm going to accept the default eight gigs of storage and just go ahead and launch it.
Here's my existing key pair, launch my instance.
So let's check out my instance id here, i-04c0.
That's enough for us to find the block storage attached to my instance.
So while that's on its way,
let's browse on over to EBS volumes and sure enough,
here's the storage, the eight gigs of
storage that's attached to the instance I just created.
Let's go back here really quick and see how it's doing.
Great, it's running, so we're all good.
Coming back over to our block storage volume,
going to expand my storage by modifying it and making it 12 gigs,
we need a little bit more capacity here.
So adding more storage.
Now, because this is a Linux backed AMI,
we're only halfway there.
We actually have to let the file system know that we've added that extra storage.
So let's go back to instances.
I'm going to go ahead and connect to it.
One of the easiest ways to SSH into an instance is to come to connect
and then let's go ahead and copy this here and paste it into our terminal.
So we're going to SSH into instance,
yes, and this has to be done with some elevated permissions.
So we're going to elevate ourselves to
root and first let's check it out and see what we have here.
Run this command.
So we see that even though we have 12 gigabytes,
our partition is still sitting at eight.
So we're going to run the growpart command on
our partition and it looks like we're good.
Let's just run and check one more time and see lsblk
and make sure that our partition has been allocated the extra four gigs.
Yeah, it looks good. So let's exit out of that.
Get out of here.
Let's go back over to our volumes and sure enough,
our size has been increased. Perfect.